# DAB304-Healthcare-Analytics-Project

## Wearable Exam Stress Prediction for Cognitive Performance in Real-World Settings

We all know that cardiovascular diseases kill approximately 17 million people globally every year, and they mainly exhibit as myocardial infarctions and heart failures. Heart failure occurs when the heart cannot pump enough blood to meet the needs of the body. And this number is being vigorously increasing every year. Our motto is to make a prediction as to why this is increasing and trying to do the best to decrease the number of deaths.  
This dataset contains the medical records of 299 patients who had heart failure, collected during their follow-up period, where each patient profile has 13 clinical features like age, anemia, high blood pressure, creatinine phosphokinase, ejection fraction, platelets, sex, diabetes and so on. Available electronic medical records of patients quantify symptoms, body features, and clinical laboratory test values, which can be used to perform biostatistics analysis aimed at highlighting patterns and correlations otherwise undetectable by medical doctors. We can predict the survival of patients with heart failure from serum creatinine and ejection fraction from the data and can individuate the most important features among those included in their medical records. We would apply several classifiers to both predict the patient’s survival and rank the features corresponding to the most important risk factors.  
Our prediction and analysis would significantly improve accuracy of cardiovascular risk prediction, increasing the number of patients identified who could benefit from preventive treatment, while avoiding unnecessary treatment of others. It provides important insights to doctors who can then adapt their diagnosis and treatment per patient basis. It lowers the risk of heart disease, diabetes, stroke, high blood pressure and certain cancers, and it can also help control stress, improve sleep, boost mood, keep weight in check, and reduce the risk of falling and improve cognitive function in older adults.  
